We're making -- we're gonna make a big investment in Germany.  In fact, right now, Germany is our top focus in the world.  I'll tell you why -- the reason is that this is a big and important market for us.  In fact for Tesla Roadster, this was the second-biggest market in the world after the US, and Germany is obviously a place that appreciates engineering and appreciates great automotive engineering in particular, and I feel like, if we can't do well in Germany, that's not a good sign.  So it's very important that we do well here.  For a very discerning buying public that's used to looking at the best in the world, we definitely have to do everything that's needed to succeed.  So, I actually think it's going to be long-term for us.  The third-largest market in the world after China, and one of the highest in per capita sales as well.  It's also a country obviously where you can go quite fast, which is really cool.  In fact I was just driving the Model S on the Autobahn, in one of the unrestricted sections, and it's a lot of fun.
There are a few things that I said I was going to announce.  One is that for any buyers of the Model S, we're going to offer a free, optional, high-speed tuning.  So whether you bought the car, or will buy the car in the future, if you're someone who likes to ride at the top-speed on the Autobahn, we will do a custom tune of the car to make it feel really great at top-speed.  You know, most other parts of the world, driving at over 200 kilometers an hour, you don't have to worry too much about that in most parts of the world.  I can tell you that in LA, it's difficult to get above 50 kilometers per hour.  But here, it's important, so we want to make sure we take care of that.  And we're actually going to send my top engineering team over here to tune it just right for the German road.  As I said, this will apply to new cars purchased in the future and will be done for free  as a retrofit to existing cars.
The next big thing is that we're making a huge investment in Superchargers ... my team to accelerate the Supercharger deployment as much as possible.  So, Germany is actually going to have the second-highest number of Superchargers anywhere outside of the US, and in fact more Superchargers per capita than the U.S.  And in fact this is going to happen very rapidly, in fact we're breaking ground right now on the first six Superchargers.  And then we're going to rapidly ramp that up to the point where every quarter we'll probably going to double the number of Superchargers all the way through the end of next year.  So our goal is by the end of the first quarter, by March of next year, that more than half of the German population is within range of a Supercharger, and that by the end of next year, it's 100%.
  I'm not sure of the exact number, it's probably on the order of 40 to 50.  Something like that.  We want the Superchargers not to just be (at) the max distance but to be maybe (at) around 200-kilometer spacing, something like that, so it's convenient, you don't always have to stop at the same place.    Yes, this is indeed part of reason, is that when you go really fast, you need the Superchargers, but more often.
And there's also going to be a power upgrade to the Superchargers, so they'll be at the 135-kilowatt level versus 120-kilowatts in the U.S.  And I think there's potential for upgrades beyond that that will take it even further.  So the goal with the Supercharger is that when you stop alongside the highway -- and these will be at places where you'd normally stop on a trip, to get fuel, get a bite to eat, or get a snack -- there will be a bunch of locations where you can park your car, plug it in, and then get a bite to eat, hit the restroom, grab a coffee, be on your way, and your car is charged and ready to go.  So you can be in and out in twenty, twenty-five minutes, type of thing.
  Well it depends on how fast you go.  The faster you go, the drag force increases with the square of speed, you lose range quite fast at the very high speeds.  But that's true of any car, true of a gasoline car, or anything.    Yes, 200 kilometers should be no problem.
There will also be a navigation upgrade that is coming out over-the-air, probably in December, that will calculate least time to destination.  Including taking into account the Supercharger locations.  So if you want to get to the destination fastest, it's gonna figure out how fast you should drive, how long you should stop, and navigate you to the Supercharger stations along the way, and then to your ultimate destination, and will calculate the whole route with the least time possible.  And it's even going to do things like look up the wind speed on the Internet, and factor that into range.  Take into account elevation, wind speed, etc. so it should be very accurate.  So that's the big Supercharger investment.
Also a big Service Center investment.  We're going to be expanding our Service Center coverage dramatically, in fact even in the next few months, but certainly by the end of next year.  By the end of next year, we expect to have probably 80% of Germany within about 100 kilometers of a Tesla Service Station.  It's a big investment, and we're going to be hiring a lot of people.  And if you know anyone you think would be great to add to the Tesla team, please ask them to submit their information.  We're looking for great people -- fast-growing company, lots of opportunity -- and it's a fun work environment and also some other good things.
Those are the three main things that I wanted to announce.  And there will be a press release with more detail, that goes out on Thursday morning, that will be spelling out where some of the initial locations will be, and giving maps.  But I wanted to tell you guys first ahead of the press.  Because really people like yourselves are extremely important to the future of Tesla.  We don't have the budget to spend money on advertising, so the only way we're able to grow is by good word of mouth.  So to the degree that people that really believe in sustainability, that really believe in the electric car revolution, people like yourselves are very important to the success of Tesla and to the success of electric vehicles in general.  There are many people out there that don't believe in electric cars, they thing nothing is going to happen.  We have to overcome that negativity, otherwise it's going to be way too slow, and there will be tremendous damage to the environment as a result.  So word of mouth is super important, it's vital.  And we need you to be able to go out there, and talk to people that you know and say 'Hey, electric cars are ready.'  It's time to make it happen.  And if the big car companies see that our sales are good, and that we are actually able to take a little bit of market share -- I mean, we're a tiny company, so a drop in the bucket -- but if they see that people are buying these cars, then they will have no choice but to conclude that electric cars are the right way to go, and that will accelerate the transition to sustainable transport.
So every time the Model S is driving down the road and somebody sees it, or a friend gets in and you take them for a ride, and their eyes open wide, and they're like 'Whoa, this is for real, it's not like I read in the papers'  Exactly -- it's a very important thing.  There are lots of naysayers out there, lots of people that say 'electric cars are never gonna happen, we should just be resigned to burning hydrocarbons forever' -- well not forever, until they run out of course -- and then they'll say certain technologies like fuel cells -- and it's like, ah God, fuel cells are so bullshit, it's really rubbish.  The only reason they do fuel cells is because, they aren't really believers, it's like a marketing thing.  But reality is that, you take a fuel cell vehicle, and you take the best-case of the fuel cell vehicle in terms of the mass and volume required to go a particular range, as well as the cost of the fuel cell system and -- if you took best-case of that, it doesn't even equal the current state-of-the-art in lithium-ion batteries, so there's no way for it to be a workable technology.  And then, putting up a huge hydrogen distribution structure is also extremely difficult.  And hydrogen is quite a dangerous gas.  You know, it's suitable for the upper stage of rockets, but not for cars.    Yeah, exactly.  Did you see 'Revenge of the Electric Car'?  So it's really important that we work as fast as possible to accelerate sustainable transport, the sooner it happens, the less environmental damage that will occur, and the world will be in a far better situation.  So that's what we're trying do at Tesla, that's really the goal, that's why we put so much time and effort into trying to grow the company.  I can also say that every time somebody buys a Model S, they are helping to pay for the mass-market lower-cost car in the future.  Every bit of money that we make -- we don't issue dividends, we don't have high salaries -- my salary is one dollar a year -- I spend it well -- I do have shares, but I don't sell them.  Yeah, captains should go down with the ship, hopefully it's -- wait a second -- the captain should be the last one to comfortably exit the ship.
Sure.  I wrote a blog piece, which might be worth doing a translation and sending it out.  It gave us an opportunity to explain that in fact an electric car, or at least our electric car, is five times less likely to catch fire than a gasoline car.  In this particular accident -- it was a very peculiar accident, where the guy drove over a piece that fell off of a truck, it was a big curved piece of a fender, it went under the car and then jackknifed up into the battery pack with a huge impact.  Nonetheless he was able to drive the car off of the highway and get out, he wasn't injured at all.  And just the front portion of the battery pack caught fire.  The net result is, he's fine.  If it would have been a gasoline car, he could have easily been killed, just because the force of that impact would have potentially gone into the passenger compartment and hurt somebody.  So the objective statistics right now are that the Model S is about five times less likely to catch fire than any gasoline far.  So a typical gasoline car has one fire every 20 million miles, and our car has, so far, is averaging one fire every 100 million miles.    Thank you for bringing up this good point.  The Model S was tested by the U.S. government where it got 5 stars in every category  Yeah, technically.  And -- the official score was 5 stars in every category, but in reality it was more like 5.4.  But there is a statistical measure that they provide to all manufacturer, it's usually too technical for public consumption, so they just provide it to manufacturers  But it's called the statistical probability of likelihood of injury, and it was the lowest probability of injury of any car ever tested by the U.S. government.
  Great -- was that on a single charge?  I don't know if everybody heard that, this gentleman drove all the way from Slovenia, at an average of 100 kilometers per hour, and drove 450 kilometers on a single charge, without recharging.   Wow, thanks! 