  Yeah.
  Well, I'm trying to do good things, yeah.  I mean, saving the world is not, I mean ...
  Yeah, ...
  I try to do useful things.    I mean, yeah.
  It's our SnakeBot Charger.
  This looks a little wrong.  You know.  
  Right.
  Ah, it's, well, I wouldn't, ... for the prototype at least, I would recommend not dropping anything when you're near it.  
  Yeah.
  It's very inhospitable.   That's true.
  Initially, yes.
  Well, it is a fixer upper of a planet.  At first you're going to have to live in transparent domes, but eventually ...
  Yeah, but eventually you could transform Mars into an Earth-like planet.
  You'd warm it up.  Just warm it up.  If you warm it ...
  There's fast way and the slow way.  
  "The fast way is drop thermonuclear weapons over the poles."    
  Yeah.
    Yeah.  The slow way would be to release greenhouse gases, like we're doing on Earth.  We've gotten a lot of experience releasing greenhouse gases.
  The CEO.
  Yeah.
  Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
  Yeah, this is the key to getting life to be multiplanetary, is to have reusable rockets.  If you throw the rockets away ever time it's crazy expensive to go to space.  But if you can refly the rockets it could be comparable to air flight in its costs.
  Yeah.
  On a ship, technically.
  It has engines.
  Well, if it's got engines, it's a ship.
  No, is' a drone ship.
   Yeah, it broke a leg on landing.  So, ... it tipped over.
  Yeah.
  It's definitely, ah, definitely heartbreaking.
  Ah.    Well, that happened several months ago, so I think, but  the ...
  I think we're actually feeling sad but happy at the same time for that because if we could reduce the landing velocity we could get it land and stay upright and not explode.
  Yes.
  Probably, well, I'm not sure if, I don't know your wife, but ...
  But I think in terms of when it will be safe enough for people, it's probably about two to three years.
  Well, in approximately two years we'll be transporting NASA astronauts to the Space Station.
  Yeah, absolutely.  Well, I think the most important think we need to solve this century is sustainable energy.  
  Thank you.